All right now we're going to get into a property called GRID template areas which basically allows us
to visually map out the alignment of our elements through CSX.
So let's create a new file here called 0 5 underscore grid underscore what is called grid areas thought
H.
All right.
So I'm going to close that up and I'm going to paste in the body here and just go over it because it's
kind of a lot I don't feel like typing it out but basically we have a main div here.
Let's just push this back like that.
All right.
So we have a did with the class of container that goes around everything and then we have a header which
just has an H1.
We have a section with the class of content.
And inside here there's an age three and a paragraph.
Then we have a set aside which we want to be our sidebar and then there's three boxes and then a footer.
So I just want to lay this out like a very simple Web site where we have the header the main content
the side by the three boxes in the footer and we're gonna do this just using the grid template areas
property.
So let's go up here and actually let's save an open at first.
Everything is just going to be straight down but we're going to set on the container we want to set
a grid.
OK.
So we'll save that.
Now here is where we want to put the grid template areas right in the in the parent.
So template dash areas and we basically like I said we want to map the map this out visually.
So the header I want to go all the way across.
So I'm going to do header header header.
Now the reason I did it three times is because we're gonna have three boxes that go all the way across.
So you want to have the maximum number of columns you have to have in every row that you do.
So that's our header row.
We don't need a comma the next one is gonna be the content in the sidebar.
So I want the content to take up two of the three and then the sidebar will take up just one here.
OK.
The next one will be the boxes which we have box.
One quotes.
So box one box two in box three and then the footer.
I want to span all the way across.
So we're just going to say footer three times I don't know why I keep forgetting the quotes.
All right.
Now if I save this it's gonna it's gonna turn into a grid but it's not doing what what we want it to
do because we haven't we haven't referenced these as grid areas.
So what we need to do is take each element in and assign it to one of these grid areas so we have a
header with the class of header right.
So I'm gonna say class header and I'm going to assign grid dash area to header OK matching this right
here.
And if I save this notice that now the header goes all the way across and you might not be able to tell
I'm actually going to just paste this in real quick which is just going to add a border around everything
so you can see the actual outline of it.
Let's actually add a grid gap as well.
OK we can you can use all this stuff even though we're using grid template areas it still works like
a grid.
So let's say grid gap one room and save maps what I do here I've got my semicolon.
OK.
So as you can see the header spans across all three.
Now the section the content area I want to be I want to span two and then have the sidebar right here.
So we have that set in the template areas but we haven't assigned the grid areas yet.
So let's take the content and let's assign the grid area to content and then we'll assign the sidebar
class to the grid area of sidebar and if I see that you can see that the content takes up two of them
too and then the the sidebar takes up one and the heading is pretty much in place but we have to add
that as well.
So we're going to take.
I'm sorry not the heading the boxes they say heading inside That's what confused me.
But let's take Box 1
and let's assign a grid area two blocks one which pertains to this right here and then I'm just going
to copy this down because we want to do the same with two and three
OK save that.
No change.
But in the last one here the footer we want to go all the way across which we specified right here that
it's going to but we need to assign the grid area.
So has a class of footer.
And then we can simply say grid area footer and save.
OK.
And that goes all the way across.
So it's actually a line that to the center as well
so text align center and we'll do the same with the header.
Very very ugly.
But I'm just showing you how you can use these great grid template areas to literally map out what your
what your layout look like.
Now let's say you wanted to change this.
Let's say we wanted to do.
Let's actually change.
Let's have box three have its own its own entire row.
So I'm going to say this is gonna be part of Box 2 and then we'll go down and we'll say box 3 box 3
and box 3.
So try to visualize what that's going to look like.
So I'm going to save and what happened is Box 1 takes up one box to takes up to you can see it's longer
and then box three takes up basically it's whole it's whole area here.
Just like the header and the footer does OK so you can kind of experiment with this a little but it's
just so easy to create layouts now OK as opposed to having to float everything and clear them and so
on.
Now in the next video I'm going to show you how to utilize media queries to make your grids responsive.